---
title: "About this site"
layout: page
path: "/about"
---

This page is mainly for myself, so I apologize if you encounter any cryptic or incomprehensible thing (it was probably
written with _me_ in mind). There may be some articles that are good enough for human consumption, but for the most part
think of this as my notebook.

The site is composed mainly of [Zettlekasten](/zettelkasten), which are my personal notes about _stuff_, as well as
higher level [_articles_](/) (although they are more like longer notes than anything else), which use the _zettlekasten_
to build up knowledge.

If you want something like this platform for yourself then feel free to clone the [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/tupini07/tupini07.github.io/tree/dev). If you want to make changes or fix a typo then PRs
are more than welcome.

## About the platform

My idea for this site was to create a platform where I can write interconnected, and easily navigable notes, in an _easy
to consume_ way. I've tried multiple applications that do this, but until now nothing has _scrached every itch_, so I
decided to build my own platform.

Luckily there's no need to build everything from scratch since there are lots of great open source elements that can be
used. Most of the functionality for the site is built on [Gatsby](http://gatsbyjs.org/) which is in charge of building
the site and a _graphql_ dataset which is used to create every page you see here.

All the _zettlekasten_ are actually notes imported from my [org-roam](https://github.com/org-roam/org-roam) (which in
turn is based on emacs' [org mode](https://orgmode.org/)) notes using [this custom
script](https://github.com/tupini07/tupini07.github.io/blob/dev/scripts/import-org-roam/convert.fish). This ensures that
I can easily work on my notes locally with `org-roam` and have a nice version of them published on the web.

The inspiration for the _zettlekasten_ note linking system was taken from wiki systems, mainly
[DokuWiki](https://www.dokuwiki.org/dokuwiki), where every entity is identified by a key. This allows me to reference
items without needing to provide the path (or actually worrying about it at all), since Gatsby will end up finding the
correct path during the build process, and replacing the references with it.

I have many changes and extensions I want to make to the platform (as you can see in the
[TODO](https://github.com/tupini07/tupini07.github.io/blob/dev/README.md#todo) section of the README). Most of this I do
in my free time so it is quite possible that the number of items in the _wishlist_ will grow faster than I'm actually
able to implement them.
